Skydio add illuminator protocol (#535)
mavlink/mavlink-devguide: en/services/illuminator.md

# Illuminator Protocol

## Introduction

The illuminator protocol allows MAVLink control over the behavior of lights, LEDs, and/or emitters mounted or integrated on the drone.
The protocol currently allows for the following control: brightness, on/off, and a strobe feature.

Along with this, the illuminator protocol also publishes status information for developers or users. The status messaging encompasses the current configuration of the illuminator and the health of the illuminator device.

> ## Concepts

Reviewer: I would remove this heading, and move the next two headings up a level. 

Then put a new heading above "### Illuminator Connection" something like `## Usage` or `## Sequences`

| <span id="MAV_CMD_DO_ILLUMINATOR_CONFIGURE"></span>[MAV_CMD_DO_ILLUMINATOR_CONFIGURE](../messages/common.md#MAV_CMD_DO_ILLUMINATOR_CONFIGURE) | Configures illuminator settings.                                                                                                                                                           |
| <span id="ILLUMINATOR_STATUS"></span>[ILLUMINATOR_STATUS](../messages/common.md#ILLUMINATOR_STATUS)                                           | Current status of the illuminator. Recommended to publish this at a regular rate.                                                                                                          |
| <span id="MAV_TYPE_ILLUMINATOR"></span>[MAV_TYPE_ILLUMINATOR](../messages/minimal.md#MAV_TYPE_ILLUMINATOR)                                    | Type of the component (illuminator).                                                                                                                                                       |

> | <span id="MAV_COMP_ID_ILLUMINATOR"></span>[MAV_COMP_ID_ILLUMINATOR](../messages/minimal.md#MAV_COMP_ID_ILLUMINATOR)                           | ID of the component (illuminator).                                                                                                                                                         |

Reviewer: Perhaps move these into another table "Enum values"

| Enum                                                                                                               | Description               |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------- |
| <span id="ILLUMINATOR_MODE"></span>[ILLUMINATOR_MODE](../messages/common.md#ILLUMINATOR_MODE)                      | Illuminator modes.        |
| <span id="ILLUMINATOR_ERROR_FLAGS"></span>[ILLUMINATOR_ERROR_FLAGS](../messages/common.md#ILLUMINATOR_ERROR_FLAGS) | Fault/health indications. |

> ### Illuminator Connection

Reviewer: Move this heading down under "## Implementation and Messages"

> Illuminators are expected to follow the [Heartbeat/Connection Protocol](https://github.com/mavlink/mavlink-devguide/blob/master/en/services/heartbeat.md) and send a constant flow of heartbeats (nominally at 1Hz). Illuminators are distinguished via their unique component ID: [MAV_COMP_ID_ILLUMINATOR](#MAV_COMP_ID_ILLUMINATOR). Once a heartbeat is received, the drone can then send a [MAV_CMD_REQUEST_MESSAGE ](https://mavlink.io/en/messages/common.html#MAV_CMD_REQUEST_MESSAGE) command to the illuminator to receive information, set settings, or control the illuminator. An example below illustrates how a drone can request the status of the illuminator.

Reviewer: Historically IDs identified the type of a thing but now code is expected to check the type. ANY component id might in theory be used. In practice though, if you only have one illuminator you should use the allocated component id because that is most likely not used by some other illuminator. 
You should check your code to make sure it does check the type and not rely on the component id for type identity.
```suggestion
Illuminators are expected to follow the [Heartbeat/Connection Protocol](https://github.com/mavlink/mavlink-devguide/blob/master/en/services/heartbeat.md) and send a constant flow of heartbeats (nominally at 1Hz). Illuminators are identified via their type [MAV_TYPE_ILLUMINATOR](#MAV_TYPE_ILLUMINATOR).
Individual illuminators are distinguished via their unique component ID, which by default should be [MAV_COMP_ID_ILLUMINATOR](#MAV_COMP_ID_ILLUMINATOR) (though this is not mandated, and any ID may be used.
Once a heartbeat is received, the drone can then send a [MAV_CMD_REQUEST_MESSAGE ](https://mavlink.io/en/messages/common.html#MAV_CMD_REQUEST_MESSAGE) command to the illuminator to receive information, set settings, or control the illuminator. An example below illustrates how a drone can request the status of the illuminator.
```

Reviewer: PS There is a lot of code in various flight stacks that does the wrong thing here ^^^, but you won't be broken if you do it the right way, and that code might be.

| `vendor_name`             | Name of the component vendor (optional).                                                                                                       |
| `model_name`              | Name of the component's model (optional).                                                                                                      |
| `software_version`        | Software version on the module, recommended format is SEMVER: 'major.minor.patch' but any format can be used (24-character string) (optional). |
| `hardware_version`        | Hardware version on the module, recommended format is SEMVER: 'major.minor.patch' but any format can be used (24-character string) (optional). |
| `serial_number`           | Hardware's serial number (optional).                                                                                                           |

Optional parameters can be left empty or set to zero.

<!-- This blank line provides visual separation in the document -->
<!-- This blank line provides visual separation in the document -->

#### ON/OFF

> The [MAV_CMD_ILLUMINATOR_ON_OFF](#MAV_CMD_ILLUMINATOR_ON_OFF) command is used to enable/disable the illuminator. It's usage can be seen below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [MAV_CMD_ILLUMINATOR_ON_OFF](#MAV_CMD_ILLUMINATOR_ON_OFF) command is used to enable/disable the illuminator.
Its usage can be seen below:

```

Illuminators can be set in different modes which can change the behavior of the illuminator (described in a separate section, [Modes](#MODES)). The brightness can be set via "Brightness" as a percentage value (0-100%). Illuminators may also have the functionality to strobe the light source. This behavior is configured via "Strobe Period" and "Strobe Duty". These parameters can be set to 0 when not used. "Strobe Period" is in seconds and "Strobe Duty" is a percentage value (indicating the % of time in the "Strobe Period" the illuminator is enabled).

<!-- This blank line provides visual separation in the document -->
<!-- This blank line provides visual separation in the document -->

##### MODES

Illuminator modes can help the drone configure the interaction behavior of the illuminator.

If the mode is unknown, the mode parameter value will be set to 0.

> The mode value as 1 indicates `ILLUMINATOR_MODE_INTERNAL_CONTROL` where the illuminator behavior is controlled by [MAV_CMD_DO_ILLUMINATOR_CONFIGURE](#MAV_CMD_DO_ILLUMINATOR_CONFIGURE) settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A mode value of 1 is `ILLUMINATOR_MODE_INTERNAL_CONTROL`, where the illuminator behavior is controlled by [MAV_CMD_DO_ILLUMINATOR_CONFIGURE](#MAV_CMD_DO_ILLUMINATOR_CONFIGURE) settings.

```

When the value is set to 2, it indicates that the illuminator mode is `ILLUMINATOR_MODE_EXTERNAL_SYNC`. This mode is for instances where the illuminator behavior is controlled by external factors: e.g. an external hardware signal.

> <!-- This blank line provides visual separation in the document -->
> <!-- This blank line provides visual separation in the document -->

Reviewer: I wouldn't worry too much about visual separation. That should be fixed in the theme but we'll live with it for now. 
```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Ditto for the cases below

##### STATUS

> The [ILLUMINATOR_STATUS](#ILLUMINATOR_STATUS) message can be requested to receive information about the status of the illuminator. This includes information such as uptime, errors, whether the illuminator is enabled via [MAV_CMD_ILLUMINATOR_ON_OFF](#MAV_CMD_ILLUMINATOR_ON_OFF), current settings from the [MAV_CMD_DO_ILLUMINATOR_CONFIGURE](#MAV_CMD_DO_ILLUMINATOR_CONFIGURE) command, and temperature of the illuminator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [ILLUMINATOR_STATUS](#ILLUMINATOR_STATUS) message can be requested to receive information about the status of the illuminator. This includes information such as uptime, errors, whether the illuminator is enabled via [MAV_CMD_ILLUMINATOR_ON_OFF](#MAV_CMD_ILLUMINATOR_ON_OFF), current settings from the [MAV_CMD_DO_ILLUMINATOR_CONFIGURE](#MAV_CMD_DO_ILLUMINATOR_CONFIGURE) command, and the temperature of the illuminator.
```
